My name is Monica Richardson.
I studied genetics and chemistry
and then medicine
in Stockholm, Sweden.
I believed in evolution
because of my education.
Everybody did.
It was something I never doubted;
it was taught as a scientific fact.
And even those
who perhaps believed
that there was a God
believed that this God
would have used evolution
in the creation process.
I want to talk
about the miracle of birth.
Now, during pregnancy,
the baby is supplied oxygen
via the placenta,
but at birth
it will have to use its lungs.
In the womb the baby’s lungs
are collapsed.
After breath,
they have to become inflated.
Now, this is a very hard work
for the baby to do.
So during the latter part
of pregnancy,
there is a very special chemical
produced and secreted
called a pulmonary surfactant.
And that chemical
is being deposited on the surface
of the peripheral parts of the lungs
where the gas exchange
is taking place
to lower the surface tension.
And that means
that when the baby is born
and starts to inflate its lungs,
he can do it.
One wonders,
‘Is this a result of a clever,
‘intelligent conception and design,
or could it
have happened by chance?’
Well, it was
when the Witnesses called on me
that I really got encouraged to,
for the first time in my life,
look into the Bible.
Life around us
is so cleverly designed
I can’t believe there is a design
without a designer.